---
layout: post
title: Judge Ross D. Pittman
description: Destroying lives of children and fathers, and letting violent criminals off with a slap on the wrist
date: 2025-02-20 16:43 +0000
---
Judge Ross D. Pittman needs to be removed immediately and should be in prison. He is a scourge on Idaho and is simply making the world a worse place. He's done more to damage Kootenai County than just about anyone. His actions both on the civil and criminal side are nothing short of monstrous and clearly unjust, across the board.

Judge Pittman thinks he can ordered whatever he want, slap "judicial discretion" on it, and call it a day. And what recourse do people have? In the case of a lenient sentence, nothing. In the case of a clearly unjust family law result, parents are left with having to appeal, which simply isn't feasible for most people, due the extraordinary cost. The judges at the higher levels are corrupt themselves, so people can't even be sure their voices will be heard then.

# Media Attention 

Judge Pittman has been the focus of media attention:

1. [The Ruling Class: Idaho’s Judiciary ](https://kootenaijournal.com/2025/02/02/the-ruling-class-idahos-judiciary/). The article highlights Pittman putting Joseph Adam Wilder, 34, on probation following his conviction for Felony Eluding an Officer while he was on probation for multiple prior DUI convictions.
2. [Mortensen discusses self-defense, lethal force, substance abuse, the loaded topic of legalizing marijuana, and mandatory sentencing.](https://kootenaijournal.com/2024/05/09/exclusive-interview-with-prosecutor-stanley-mortensen/). He discusses how Judge Pittman is letting off repeat offenders with a slap on the wrist, which is shocking to citizens who see the sentences. This isn't mercy, it's wreckless and unjust.
3. [Kootenai County Prosecuting Attorney's Office](https://m.facebook.com/100079202030906/). Gives summaries of rulings in Kootenai County. All of Judge Pittman's ruling are far below what the prosecutor is recommending.

> “Our judges get free passes far too often. This has to be published and made overwhelmingly known to the public. There are some good and some bad… their records need to be shared among the public, good and bad… We can fight to retain good ones, and weed out the ones who don’t care about rule of law or case law. This is getting crazy.”

# My Experience with Judge Pittman

In my divorce case, Judge Pittman refused to look at evidence I presented and allowed my ex wife to withhold visitation from me for 13 months. I desperately wanted to see my daughter, but Pittman wouldn't allow it. There was no justifiable reason that he did this, but from it's actions it's clear he hates fathers and children and just wants to punish good and innocent families.

# Judge Pittman and Lenitent Criminal Court Cases

Judge Pittman has no problem destroying fathers and children in family court. But when it comes to repeat serious criminal offenders, he gives them a slap on the wrist and lets them go. Here are some examples:

1. 1/22/2025: Wilder was on probabtion, has a history of multiple high speed chases, and multiple DUI cases. At sentencing on January 21, 2025, Deputy Prosecuting Attorney Corey Weber recommended a 5-year prison sentence with no possibility of parole for the 2024 incident as well as imposed sentences (jail and prison time) in all of the probation matters. District Judge Ross Pittman sentenced Wilder to a 5-year prison sentence for the 2024 incident but suspended that sentence and placed Wilder on probation for 4 years.  Judge Pittman also kept Wilder on probation in the prior matters.
2. Leon Thomas Clark, 35, was convicted of Lewd Conduct with a Minor under Sixteen. Clark’s criminal history includes a 2014 conviction for felony injury to a child.  In that case, Clark was found in a hotel room with a missing/runaway 16-year-old girl from Spokane – Clark was 24 at the time.  During the investigation, officers located a picture of the girl’s vagina on Clark’s phone.  Clark was sentenced to probation in that case and violated his probation in 2015 and 2016.  Clark was also convicted of DUI in 2020 and 2022. District Judge Ross Pittman sentenced Clark to a 25-year prison sentence with parole eligibility after 5 years. Parole after 5 years? For all this?
3. Following a two-day jury trial in January 2025, David Wayne Lamont, 71, was convicted of Delivery and Possession of Methamphetamine.  The charges stemmed from an incident on March 8, 2023, where Lamont traveled to Spokane to purchase methamphetamine for him and his girlfriend to use.  Lamont and his girlfriend smoked the methamphetamine that evening, went out to get a 6-pack of beer, and then returned to their residence in the early evening.  Shortly before noon the next day, however, Lamont drove his girlfriend to the hospital in Coeur d’Alene where she was pronounced dead on arrival. District Judge Ross Pittman sentenced Lamont to concurrent 7-year prison sentences for each charge but suspended the sentences and placed Lamont on probation for 3 years. Kill someone and get 3 years probabtion?
4. Peter Louis Cahoon, 33, was convicted of Attempted Second Degree Kidnapping and Battery Upon Officer.  The Attempted Kidnapping charge stemmed from an incident on May 21, 2024, where Cahoon attempted to kidnap a 6-year-old girl as she sat in a vehicle with her father. District Judge Ross Pittman sentenced Cahoon to a unified 15-year prison sentence but suspended the sentence and placed Cahoon on probation for 10 years. Try to kidnap a 6-year-old and you get probation?
5. Michael Patrick Keener, 54, was convicted of Trafficking in Heroin and Trafficking in Methamphetamine. After determining nobody in the motel room needed help, officers investigated and located nearly an ounce of heroin, over an ounce of methamphetamine, and over 1,000 fentanyl pills. District Judge Ross Pittman sentenced Keener to a 10-year prison sentence with parole eligibility after 5 years for Trafficking in Heroin and Trafficking in Methamphetamine. This level of drug dealing, and you get out in 5 years?
6. Christian Michael Stone, 23, was convicted of Attempted Strangulation, Intimidating a Witness, and Violation of a No Contact Order.  The convictions stemmed from an incident on August 21, 2024, when officers responded to the report of domestic abuse. District Judge Ross Pittman sentenced Stone to a 20-year prison sentence with parole eligibility after 5 years. You try to kill someone who has a protection order against you, and you're out in 5 years?
7. Brandon Tyler Ove, 27, was convicted of Sexual Exploitation of Children by Possession of and Distribution of Sexually Exploitative Material (Child Sexual Abuse Material, a.k.a. Child Pornography). At sentencing, Judge Pittman sentenced Ove to prison for 10 years with parole eligibility after 7 years for Possession of Child Pornography and 15 years with parole eligibility after 7 years for Distribution of Child Pornography. Back out in 7 years? You think they won't reoffend? They should be locked up forever.
8. James Bruce Dillon, 56, was convicted of Grand Theft.  During the Summer of 2024, Dillon stole two very expensive bicycles in the City of Post Falls.Emphasizing Dillon’s 30-years career as a thief, Chief Deputy Prosecuting Attorney Art Verharen recommended Dillon be sentenced to prison for 14 years with parole eligibility after 5 years. At sentencing, District Judge Ross Pittman sent Dillon to prison for 6 years with parole eligibility after two and a half years. Lifetime of theft, out in 2-1/2 years? Really?

